I love earthworm jims
okay yes he was created in order to
Kashi on the mascot fad during the
mid-90s and as such he got his own
cartoon show and line of action figures
but you know what that didn't matter
because his craters actually put some
effort into their hero the cartoon is
hilarious and the 2d platformers for the
Mega Drive from suit mint and it is
still fun to play today
there was also a third game for the
Nintendo 64 you think that having one of
my favourite game franchises on my
favorite console of all time would be a
winning combination right
well it wasn't earthworm jim 3d years as
the name suggests jim's attempt to
emulate merry success and jump into the
third dimension like super mario 64 the
aim of the game is to explore the levels
perform tasks and collect shiny things
the difference is that unlike Mario's
familiar momentum and the simple joy of
running and jumping about getting from
point A to point B in earth when game 3d
is quite a painful often repetitive
experience even having played the game
for several hours I'm still not quite
sure how far I can actually jump the
game seems to be extremely inconsistent
in its own rules here's a block I can
jump and grab on to the edge of here's
another of the same size but I can't the
problem is that you're supposed to
attack a level in a particular way and
if you do it wrong it doesn't work even
if it looks like you're sure and more
often than not the pencil cannot
guessing what the designer wants you to
do is death which means if to start the
level all over again and then there's
the camera which is awful result it's
much too close to German and all
completely wrongly most the time meaning
that when you jump you can't see where
you're going to land this means that
even if the platforming sections were
well designed which on the whole they
aren't they'd still be frustrating as
hell because you can never have
confidence they will to make the next
jump I didn't think that I'd be saying
this again so soon - thank God for GG
Amundson games with the crappy
platforming mechanics on the straight
and level the camera is still clueless
taking literally no account of the
direction moving or what you're doing
and only becoming very resistant to man
in the restaurant who ever seen the
camera get stuck against enemies before
how about the player character itself I
hadn't but with no other obstacles faced
by I can't imagine what else it could be
I do have to give the game some credit
though for its setting Jim has
apparently taken one too many knocks to
the hair
as his ego you have to journey through
to his four brains and find his marbles
how golden others fit me with that logic
I don't know but this interesting story
means the developers didn't just go back
on the old stands of jungle fire ice and
so on but there's always a bit spotty
though and some of the levels are
seriously dulled an early example
consisting of endless specters of the
same bland wood texture there are any
four levels as well so if it weren't for
the fact the game is buttered clenching
really frustrating you will be very
short I was also impressed and actors
from the cartoon were on hand to lend
their voices including dan Castellaneta
and sometimes the things they say are
genuinely funny
but the frustrating badly designed
levels are nothing compared to the boss
battles at the end of the farmyard level
you face the arch-nemesis psycho we have
to ride a pig around the arena shooting
with homing missiles it sounds fair
enough but here's the thing the missiles
don't hurt him you have to use them so
he drops the marbles he's carrying so
you can collect all 100 he can shoot you
too naturally but that makes he drop
models and lose health you can dodge his
missiles but you really have to nail the
timing and the camera is so close you
barely have any time to react why don't
my missiles hurt him why he's so much
more accurate and why is it so hard to
steer this pig to actually collect the
marbles alright forget that last one but
anyway so I eventually beat him and I
moved on to the next level hence
unnecessary long time collecting marbles
so I could get to the next boss and oh
no not another one of these and it's
harder this time as well he can teleport
to avoid my missiles and now each hit
knocks off twice as much of my health
why did they reuse this become it why am
I still writing this same annoying Pig
when I'm running the farm yard level
anymore who thought this was fun there
at least two more levels after this
please don't tell me that the bosses are
all fought in the same stupid way oh
wait yes they are and what's more if we
have the patients who actually beat one
of these things and believe me if I
wasn't reviewing the game I would not
have done this the game spits out no
less than five gold mothers oh come on
that's just being lazy don't see Mary
over getting five stars at the time do
you well it does is make these boss
battles the only others that you must
collect in the game you can skip over
one or two of yours if you want to with
the pork boardin the worst part of the
game is unavoidable actually you know
what the worst thing is this
generic platform with his face slapped
on it that would have been bad enough
now every now and then you'll see the
game copying elements from the previous
games and getting it hideously wrong
does this remind you of anything for
example guiding a defenseless NPC along
a path filled with hazards it's for
pete's sake from the first game but done
really badly to be honest I would
probably be less insulting to my memory
if they hadn't bothered with all these
references to the past and in some ways
it may have been a better game for it
sometimes I get to thinking that the
game is just being crazy because that's
where the earth origin games are but it
doesn't do it in anywhere near the same
funny or clever way that the old games
did why are there giant hamsters in a
chicken coop I know they were in the
series before but this makes no sense so
what's the verdict on earth wandering
freely then well as many thumbs down as
I can find whilst the idea of exploring
someone's brain here's a good one it's
been done far better since the
development of the game was very rushed
and it really shows there are sparks of
what made him stand out from the rest
back in the day but these are ground up
by the incredibly cheap feeling and
looking nature of the game avoid it
especially if you played the older games
you deserve to be treated better and
frankly so do you